---
extends: _layouts.stream
section: content
images: ["\/assets\/img\/stream\/202102\/IMG_0027.jpg"]
date: 2021-02-21
---

I'm currently reading ‘Digital Minimalism' by Cal Newport and I've got to say, it's striking a lot of chords with me. 

Whilst technology is an integral part of my work (without it my job wouldn't exist) it plays more of a role than it really should do in my life outside of my 9 to 5. Whether it's idly scrolling through Instagram, where there seem to be more sponsored posts than not, or mindlessly searching for something to watch on Netflix if an evening, I find myself wasting more and more of my free time staring at the screen of my iPhone/iPad and achieving absolutely nothing.

I stopped using Facebook some time ago (although my account is still active), and I removed Twitter and LinkedIn from my mobile devices to limit my time there, but I still find myself falling down digital rabbit holes, and getting zero satisfaction for my troubles.

So I'm taking back the power. As soon as I post this I will be removing Instagram from my phone for at least the next 30 days. I've already taken the step of preserving my post history over on my personal website (link in bio) and will continue to use it as a drop-in for posting updates on what I'm up to. Feel free to check-in every now and then, but there will be no likes, no mentions and no comments. In fact zero metrics whatsoever - I'll be posting for myself and nobody else.

I might write a blog post about other steps I'm taking in my digital de-clutter - but only if I feel it necessary to document my thoughts further on the matter.

If you want to get in touch with me don't bother sliding into my DMs. Instead, my website has my email address, so drop me a line. I'll be checking my inbox once a week, so may not get back to you right away, but I will respond.

See you on the other side - but if the next 30 days go well, I might not.